README.md, before:

# tetrisdqn
A self-learning Tetris agent.

# WIP

08/12/18 - 5PM
Start the project. We know we need a couple of things. The agent that learns, a gym to play in, and a way to test the gym as a human.
We create the basic classes.

08/12/18 - 6PM
We have some standard bits done, we have a few different pieces and we've defined the downward motion and the collision detection.
Upon collision, the piece becomes part of the scene, and then generates a new one, which starts falling.

We chose 3 block types, no block, solid block, and a block of the piece that's moving. We're ignoring the colour so we have 3 types for the neural network.
We can expand this out again later.

08/12/18 - 7PM
Added a way to test it by hand from the console, we've got left and right working, need to do rotation and scoring. Haven't made this particularly easy to do the rotations.

08/12/18 - 8PM
Rewritten the piece management, rotations work. Need to set the start position for the corner of the piece's space, and add the block removal and failure cases.

08/12/18 - 9PM
Tetris gym seems to operate as expected.

Commit message:

Updating the readme file and a few other tidy up changes.

README.md, after:

# TetrisDQN
A Tetris environment with a reinforcement learning agent to play it.

*This is not currently finished, but the goal is to get something that can at least play for a little while.*

The goal is to develop an agent that can learn to play Tetris with a reinforcement learning model. Designing reward functions appropriate to Tetris are difficult because good Tetris strategies rely on carefully building up large sections of blocks with the intention of clearing as many as possible in one go for an increased score.

Initially I took the standard approach of using just the rewards from the game, but random exploration is not completing any lines.
The current approach at the time of writing uses a combination of the height of the populated area, the density and some other calculations as a reward. It also waits until the block has landed before evaluating the success of the placement, and populating the experience with a weaker or stronger reward depending on how close the block is to being placed in that particular space.

I intent to make further adjustments so that the bot can be pre-trained by observing player behaviour for some amount of time before starting it's random exploration.
